Added snapshot management (#718)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _opensearch/snapshots/snapshot-management.md

---
layout: default
title: Snapshot management
parent: Snapshots
nav_order: 20
has_children: false
---

> # Snapshot management

Reviewer: Please call out the defaults in Snapshot management, example - default snapshot name, snapshot creation/deletion schedule, etc. @bowenlan-amzn can you pls help provide those?

> Snapshot management (SM) is a feature of the [Index Management Plugin]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/im-plugin) that lets you automate [taking snapshots]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshots/snapshot-restore#take-snapshots). Snapshots have minimal overhead, since they store only incremental changes since the last snapshot. To set up automatic snapshots, you have to create an SM policy with a desired SM schedule and configuration. 

Author: Done

When you create an SM policy, its document ID is given the name `<policy_name>-sm-policy`. Because of this, SM policies have to obey the following rules:

- SM policies must have unique names. 

- You cannot update the policy name after its creation. 

SM-created snapshots have names in the format `<policy_name>-<date>-<random number>`. Two snapshots created by different policies at the same time always have different names because of the `<policy_name>` prefix. To avoid name collisions within the same policy, each snapshot's name contains a hash of time.

> Each policy has associated metadata about the status of snapshot creation. The metadata is saved into the system index. The metadata is read before running every scheduled job, so that SM can continue execution from the previous job's state. You can view the metadata using the [explain API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshots/sm-api#explain).

Author: Done

> The cluster’s global metadata must be readable. To include an index in a snapshot, the index and its metadata must also be readable.

Author: Done

{: .note}

> An SM schedule is a custom [cron]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-plugins/alerting/cron) expression that specifies the frequency of taking snapshots, and the timing of creating and deleting snapshots. 

Author: Done

> An SM configuration includes the indices and repository for these snapshots, and has all parameters you can define when [creating a snapshot]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshot-restore#take-snapshots) manually. 

Author: Changed to:
An SM configuration includes the indices and repository for these snapshots, and has all parameters you can define when [creating a snapshot]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshot-restore#take-snapshots) using the API. Additionally, you can define the format and time zone for the date used in the snapshot's name.

> An SM configuration can have more than one index.

Author: Removed

{: .note}

## Performance 

One snapshot can contain as many indices as there are in the cluster. We expect at most dozens of SM policies in one cluster, but a snapshot repository can safely scale to thousands of snapshots. However, to manage its metadata, a large repository requires more memory on the cluster manager node. 

> Snapshot management depends on the job scheduler plugin to schedule a job that is run periodically. Each SM policy corresponds to one SM scheduled job. The scheduled job is lightweight, so the burden of SM depends on the snapshot creation frequency and the burden of running snapshot operation itself. However, too many pending SM tasks can block other high-priority tasks in the cluster.

Reviewer: >However, too many pending SM tasks can block other high-priority tasks in the cluster.

what is the remediation if this happens? Pls add

Reviewer 2: > However, too many pending SM tasks can block other high-priority tasks in the cluster.

Can remove this. We are not giving a concept of SM tasks here but only the scheduled job which is lightweight.
And this scheduled job is not blocking other tasks in the cluster.

We are calling out the concurrent running snapshot operation below.

Author: Done

## Concurrency 

- Taking a snapshot doesn’t block indexing or other requests. However, the snapshot won’t include changes made after the snapshot process starts. 

- Snapshot deletion doesn't block snapshot creation.

> - Taking a snapshot can temporarily pause shard allocations. 

Reviewer 2: These belong more to snapshot page.

My knowledge of snapshot is actually from reading the doc https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/snapshot-restore.html#how-snapshots-work
It contains more detail about what changes are included in snapshot
And the influence snapshot on shard allocation

> We don't recommend creating several SM policies with the same schedule and overlapping indices in one cluster, since it hinders performance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not recommended ...
```

Author: This is according to our style guide. "We" means OpenSearch.

> We don't recommend creating several SM policies with the same schedule and overlapping indices in one cluster, since it hinders performance. 

Reviewer 2: Inside one SM policy, we design SM to not support concurrent snapshot operations which may degrade the cluster if there are too many. Snapshot operations, creation or deletion, are performed asynchronously, and until the previous operation finishes, SM won't start a new operation.

We don't recommend creating several SM policies with the same schedule and overlapping indices in one cluster, because it leads to concurrent snapshot creation on same indices and hinders performance.

Author: Done

{: .warning }

> We don't recommend setting up the same repository for multiple SM policies in different clusters, since it hinders performance. 

Reviewer 2: We don't recommend setting up the same repository for multiple SM policies with same schedule in different clusters, since it may bring a sudden spike of burden on this repository.

{: .warning }

## Failure management

> If snapshot creation fails, it is retried for a maximum of three times. The failure message is saved into metadata and is removed if a subsequent snapshot creation attempt succeeds. Possible reasons for failure include red indices, and shard reallocation.

Reviewer 2: The failure message is saved into metadata and it will be overridden if the subsequent snapshot operation attempt succeeds.

Author: Done

## Security

SM follows the OpenSearch plugin security model:

- The system index is only accessible to super admin (who uses the cluster SSL credential directly). Even the admin user cannot access the system index.
    

> - The security plugin checks each added API plugin at transport layer. The security plugin checks the security roles of the calling user if the roles contain the permission associated with this API.

Reviewer 2: The security plugin checks each API call at transport layer.

Author: Removed

> - The security plugin checks each added API plugin at transport layer. The security plugin checks the security roles of the calling user if the roles contain the permission associated with this API.

Reviewer 2: Please refer to below table for the permission associated with each SM API.

    
- The API calls within the plugin impersonate the user. For example, SM saves the user security roles, and impersonates the user with these roles when calling the snapshot APIs. 

Security plugin provides role-based access control for OpenSearch. The role associated with user contains [permissions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/permissions) for this user. Security plugin checks the security role of the impersonated user when the snapshot API is called.

> To use SM, the user’s role is must have the following permissions:

Reviewer 2: the user’s role must have the following permissions:

Author: Done

> To use SM, the user’s role is must have the following permissions:

Reviewer 2: We have provided out-of-the-box snapshot management full access and read only role for user

Please refer to this https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/pull/1897/files

> To use SM, the user’s role is must have the following permissions:

Reviewer 2: Seems we have these predefined roles listed here https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security-plugin/access-control/users-roles#predefined-roles

Can update that page and link from here.

> Security plugin provides role-based access control for OpenSearch. The role associated with user contains [permissions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/permissions) for this user. Security plugin checks the security role of the user during API calling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security plugin provides role-based access control for OpenSearch. The role associated with user contains [permissions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security-plugin/access-control/permissions) for this user. Security plugin checks the security role of the impersonated user when the snapshot API is called.
```

- SM APIs. For example, the role must have the permission `cluster:admin/opensearch/snapshot_management/put` for SM index policy API. Users without necessary permissions will be blocked when calling the SM API.

- Get/create/delete snapshot APIs. For example, the user must have the permission `cluster:admin/snapshot/get` for get snapshot API. If the user does not have the necessary permissions, SM will fail to perform these snapshot operations at runtime.

> The following table lists the required permissions for each function of SM.

Reviewer 2: The following table lists the associated permissions for each API of SM.

Author: Done

An SM configuration includes the indices and repository for the snapshots, and supports all parameters you can define when [creating a snapshot]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshots/snapshot-restore#take-snapshots) using the API. Additionally, you can specify the format and time zone for the date used in the snapshot's name.

## Performance 

One snapshot can contain as many indices as there are in the cluster. We expect at most dozens of SM policies in one cluster, but a snapshot repository can safely scale to thousands of snapshots. However, to manage its metadata, a large repository requires more memory on the cluster manager node. 

Snapshot management depends on the job scheduler plugin to schedule a job that is run periodically. Each SM policy corresponds to one SM scheduled job. The scheduled job is lightweight, so the burden of SM depends on the snapshot creation frequency and the burden of running the snapshot operation itself. 

## Concurrency 

> An SM policy does not support concurrent snapshot operations, since too many such operations may degrade the cluster. Snapshot operations (creation or deletion) are performed asynchronously: SM does not start a new operation until the previous operation finishes.

Reviewer 2: Snapshot operations (creation or deletion) are performed asynchronously and SM does not start a new operation until the previous asynchronous operation finishes.

We don't recommend creating several SM policies with the same schedule and overlapping indices in one cluster, because it leads to concurrent snapshot creation on same indices and hinders performance. 
{: .warning }

We don't recommend setting up the same repository for multiple SM policies with same schedule in different clusters, since it may bring a sudden spike of burden on this repository.
{: .warning }

## Failure management

> If a snapshot operation fails, it is retried for a maximum of three times. The failure message is saved in metadata and is overwritten if a subsequent snapshot operation succeeds. You can view the failure message using the [explain API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshots/sm-api#explain). When using Dashboards, you can view the failure message in the [policy details page]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/snapshots/sm-dashboards#view-edit-or-delete-an-sm-policy). Possible reasons for failure include red index status, and shard reallocation.

Reviewer 2: The failure message is saved in `metadata.latest_execution` and is overwritten when the subsequent snapshot operation starts.
